
Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT) - Academic Regulations (B.Tech)

Section 8: Grading and Promotion
8.1 Passing Marks: A student must obtain a minimum of 40% aggregate marks (combined internal and end-semester external) in a theory course to obtain a PASS grade (Letter grade P or higher). Marks strictly below 40% receive an 'F' (Fail) grade.
8.2 Maximum Backlogs: A student is promoted to the next academic year provided they do not carry more than 4 active backlogs from previous semesters.

Section 11: Attendance and Detention
11.1 Students of the programme are expected to attend every lecture, tutorial and practical class scheduled for them.
11.2 Minimum Attendance Requirement: The students must have a minimum attendance of 75% of the total number of classes including lectures, tutorials and practicals, held in a subject till MSE/ESE in order to be eligible to appear in the MSE/ESE for that subject.
11.3 Medical & Authorized Activities Relaxation: The Dean Academics may allow relaxation in the minimum requirement of attendance upto 10% for reasons to be recorded. This relaxation may be granted on the production of documents showing that the student was either busy in any authorized activities or was absent due to medical/other genuine reasons. The student should submit these documents to the HoD, within seven days of resuming the studies. Certificates submitted later will not be considered.
11.4 Exceptional Relaxation: Under exceptional circumstances, the Dean Academics may further relax the minimum attendance up to 5% on recommendation of a committee comprising of Dean Student Welfare, Dean of Faculty and HoD of the respective department.
11.5 Relaxation Limit: Relaxation in attendance maybe granted for a maximum of 2 times during the duration of the programme.
11.6 Absolute Minimum Floor: A student shall not be permitted to appear in the MSE/ESE if his/her attendance till MSE/ESE is below 60% after relaxation given in clauses 11.3 and 11.4.
11.7 Detention and FD Grade: Students who are not allowed to appear in the ESE due to shortage of attendance shall be awarded 'FD' (Failed due to Detention) grade. Such students shall have to register again for that course in subsequent years/summer semester to pass the course. They are strictly prohibited from appearing in the supplementary examination for that course.
11.8 Elective Re-registration: A student can register again for a different elective course in subsequent years/summer semester and pass the elective course.
11.9 Count of Attendance: The attendance shall be counted from the date of start of academic session. For first year students, attendance shall be counted from the date of the start of academic session or actual date of admission, whichever is later.
